From the New York Times, I'm Rachel
Abrams and this is the Daily.
[Music]
An explosive whistleblower report claims
that the Justice Department is asking
government lawyers to lie to the courts
and that that has forced career
officials to choose between upholding
the Constitution or pledging loyalty to
the president. Today, I speak to that
whistleblower.
[Music]
It's Wednesday, July 23rd.
>> Eris Ruini, welcome to the Daily.
>> Nice to meet you.
>> I spoke to Aris Ruini, the whistleblower
on Monday. I'm very curious how you feel
being with us today.
Well, I mean, I don't I didn't have this
on my life bingo card, but I'm happy to
be here and happy to tell my story and
happy that you all want to hear it.
>> In 2010, Ruvanei joined the Justice
Department's Office of Immigration
Litigation, where he worked until he was
fired in April of this year. And then in
June, he filed a whistleblower complaint
that alleges he was quote thwarted,
threatened, fired, and publicly
disparaged for both doing his job and
telling the truth to the court because
his clients engaged in unlawful
activity, abused their authority,
created substantial and specific threat
to health and safety, and because the
pattern of this conduct continues to
this day.
Look, I've been a DOJ attorney for 15
years. And the things that I experienced
in that 3-week window from March 14th to
uh April 5th when I was suspended
are unprecedented. I've never seen
anything like it. His whistleblower
complaint focuses on directives he got
from senior political appointees at the
Justice Department, including from Emil
Boie, who before joining the DOJ was
President Trump's personal lawyer.
So, I've come forward because the
Trump administration has put civil
servants in this impossible position of
feelalty to the president and the agenda
or falty to uphold the constitution and
to uphold the rule of law. And time and
time again during those three weeks, I
was put to the question, which side am I
going to be on? And ultimately, I mean,
I didn't sign up to lie to a court. And
that's the position I was put in, and
that's the position others are being put
in. And that's why I've come forward.
[Music]
It also sounds like, if I'm kind of
hearing you correctly and reading
between the lines a little bit, that
like you have an image of what the DOJ
is supposed to be. And maybe to start,
can you just talk about why and how you
end up at the Justice Department to
begin with?
>> Sure.
I mean, I was at a law firm in San
Francisco for a couple years after
clerking for two federal judges, and
that was never the endgame. I went there
just because the money paid well. I
wanted to live in San Francisco for a
brief period of time, but I always
wanted to get into public service. And
the key marquee place to do that,
everyone understood at the time, and I
still until recently felt this way, was
the Department of Justice because right
away, you are leading big cases. You're
standing up in court. You're saying,
"Zuaney on behalf of the United States."
You're not necessarily saying Arizona on
behalf of some large faceless
corporation. You're here really
representing the people of the United
States. And the thing that I've always
thought about when trying to explain
this is there's this uh Supreme Court
case from 1935 in which the Supreme
Court tells you what it is to be a
government lawyer. And the role of the
government attorney, the Supreme Court
writes, is not simply to win. It's to
make sure justice is done. And that's
that's the thrill of standing up in
court and saying your name on behalf of
the United States.
>> You sound I just want to point out
idealistic. It sounds like that's why
you went to the DOJ.
>> I think that'd be fair to say.
>> When you first joined the Justice
Department, did it feel like what you
thought being a DOJ attorney would feel
like? Like did it feel like the job was
living up to the idealistic vision that
you had or your ethical expectations?
>> Yeah, absolutely. And I think it's not
true specific or uniquely to the Obama
administration. It's true even of the
first Trump administration, the Biden
administration.
>> When you got a court order, you followed
it.
>> So, let's fast forward to the first
Trump administration. Can you tell us
about some of the immigration cases you
worked on during the first
administration?
>> Sure. I think the the most high-profile
one would have been the first one, the
uh travel ban that sort of issued
January 27th, 2017
that occupied the first few months,
frankly, of the Trump administration in
the immigration space. And I I can
recall working a 100 hour weeks
defending it uh in January and February
of that year.
>> This was the travel ban that was
colloially known as the Muslim ban.
>> That's right.
>> How did it feel to defend that? Because
obviously that was an extremely
controversial case. Did you have any
concerns representing the government on
that issue?
>> So, at that time, no. At that time, I
did not have concerns because if we got
a court order, as I did, which said you
may not apply the travel ban in the
state of Virginia, we complied with it.
And if we didn't like it, we appealed.
>> You were comfortable doing whatever was
within the the limits of your abilities
and the limits of the law.
>> I mean, that's part of being a
government lawyer. You don't you may not
like everything you defend, but you're
still there working with the client to
do something within the confines of the
law. And the client here would have been
the Department of Homeland Security and
State.
>> Just to put a really fine point on it,
we know from some of our colleagues
reporting that in the first term, the
administration was frustrated with
attorneys who they saw as standing in
their way, particularly on issues of
immigration. It does not sound like that
you were that type of lawyer. You are
not somebody who is pushing back against
the Trump administration because you may
have political or personal opposition to
the policies. You were doing your job.
You worked within the confines of what
was legal and that is what matters.
>> Yeah, that's right. I mean, the Trump
administration promoted me and I gave me
three awards if I recall correctly
during the first Trump administration
for work I've done defending the very
policies we're just talking about now,
including the travel ban. So, I'm there
to do my job as a government attorney. I
may not personally agree or disagree
with everything I'm defending regardless
of who's the president, but the job is
to defend vigorously the
administration's goals within the
confines of the law.
>> Coming up to the 2024 election,
the Trump campaign made it very clear
that a second Trump administration was
going to be much more aggressive about
immigration. And I wonder how you
interpreted that. like what did you
think and what were you expecting
>> having led litigation during the first
Trump administration and seen sort of
how that unfolded I I think we and this
this may be my personal thought I don't
want to put this view in anyone else's
head but we thought it'd be less chaotic
like they've done this already they sort
of maybe have a better handle on how to
put out policy that survives the courts
we thought they would be more orderly
compared to the first Trump
administration
So when President Trump's second term
actually begins, you do start to grow
more concerned about how the
administration is enacting on this
immigration agenda. So take me to the
first moment when you started to feel
that concern. What exactly happened and
why did it bother you?
Yeah, this I think is March 14th of this
year and this is the same day where I am
informed that I will soon be promoted to
the acting deputy director for the
office of immigration litigation, which
means I would essentially be the person
overseeing all the district court
litigation. Basically, the buck stops
with me on quality control for anything
going through the district courts. So
that same day that I'm told that I am
going to serve in this role, I am
summoned with very little context to a
meeting in the deputy attorney general's
conference room along with Juansson, the
political in charge of immigration
litigation and my supervisor who at the
time was the acting director. So at this
meeting, we are told by Emil Boie, who
was running the meeting, the president
was going to sign a proclamation
invoking a rarely used
1798 wartime law, the Alien Enemies Act,
and that planes containing individuals
subject to this proclamation, Venezuelan
nationals alleged to be members of the
train dura gang, were going to take off
that weekend.
>> This was a surprise. I mean, we had
heard Steven Miller and folks he was
associated with in 2024 talk about the
Alien Enemies Act. And so, we were
vaguely aware that this might be
something at some point they would
implement. But the key thing here, this
is the important part of why this is so
unusual, is this is a wartime law. It's
only been invoked three times in the
nation's history. It's never been
invoked when there isn't a state of war.
M and in the normal course even in the
first Trump administration the way one
implements a somewhat aggressive reading
of the law is you sit down with the
lawyers you come up with the best way to
roll this out in the courts you don't
make the roll out operationally chaotic.
None of that happened here and so we
have no context at this meeting for what
we're about to hear what the plan is
like how it's going to be implemented
and no one asks our opinion either.
Nobody seems to care our thoughts on how
to defend this or if it's defensible.
What happens after that? Tell us what
they instruct you to do.
>> So Vi, who again is leading the meeting,
tells everyone in attendance that this
invocation of the Alien Enemies Act to
remove certain Venezuelan nationals is
of the highest importance to the White
House. And after a pause emphasizing to
everyone again in the room, those planes
have to take off quote no matter what.
And then there's another pause there.
And then this is the thing that sets the
tone for the next 3 weeks. Uh Boi says,
"And if some court were to issue some
order that prevents that from happening,
we would have to consider telling that
court, quote, "Fuck you."
>> What were you thinking in that moment
when he said that?
>> I felt like a grenade had gone off, like
this is is he serious? M
>> it wasn't clear to me if it was just
acting or or or bravado, chest dumping,
like it was crazy. And after a very long
pause,
uh my immediate supervisor says, "Well,
if we get an order, we would advise our
clients to follow the order."
And after that, we ushered out of the
conference room very quickly. The
meeting ended shortly after that. Just
to lay out super clearly why this took
you a back so much is that lawyers
do not regularly say f you to the
courts, right? Like like abiding by a
court order is the biggest brightest red
line.
>> Yeah, we get court orders that are bad
for the goals of whoever is in the White
House all the time. But the normal thing
you do is you follow the order unless
and until you get it reversed on appeal
or stayed by a higher court. You don't
just preemptively announce, "Yeah, we're
just not going to follow that one." That
was highly unusual. I'd never heard
anything like it in my 15 years.
>> Did you think walking out of that
meeting that was probably just bluster?
We're not actually going to be asked to
do that.
>> Once my supervisor spoke up to say,
"Well, no, we would advise our clients
to follow court orders." Yeah. I felt a
little bit better about it. I I felt
that okay, this is not something we need
to worry about.
>> What happened after that?
>> So the uh attorneys from the ACLU file a
lawsuit that I become aware of at 7:30
the next day. So by that morning, Judge
Boseberg had issued a TTRO.
>> The judge in this case,
>> yes, that which is a temporary
restraining order.
And so, as was telegraphed at the
meeting the day before, we know that
we're going to be spending our weekend
defending this Alien Enemies Act
operation, and we're going to be in
court on Saturday. And there was a
hearing set for 4 p.m. later that day.
That hearing got moved to 5. Uh, and
then we appeared at that hearing. And by
we, I mean Drew Enen. Drew Enson handled
the argument for the government. And
now, just to sidebar here for a second,
Enen was at the same meeting I was at,
and he heard the same things that I
heard from Mr. Boby, including that
planes are taking off over the weekend
and that they need to take off no matter
what, and this is the highest priority
to the White House. So, Boseberg asks
him, "Are there any planes taking off?"
And he says, "I don't know.
I believe that
to not be a plausible answer from
someone in Mr. Enson's position since he
was at the same meeting as me.
>> You think he lied?
>> I believe he lied. I don't see how he
could have come away from that meeting
with the impression that no planes were
taking off over the next 24 to 48 hours.
And that's sort of the first
operationalization, if you will, of the
FU. So, here we have
>> Mhm.
>> the political head of the immigration
section telling the court, "I don't
know."
>> What was your reaction when you heard
your colleague, as you put it, lying to
a judge?
>> Oh, [__]
>> How can he say that? That's just not
true.
>> Wow.
So, at this point, you've seen your
colleagues do behavior that you find
highly objectionable. It sounds like at
what point do you actually get involved?
>> Well, I'm talking to my immediate
supervisor in real time as this is
happening the evening of March 15th and
I'm I'm banging the drum of
this is not right. We're lying
potentially to the court. And the
following day, we get this email from
the acting assistant attorney general uh
who tells us that the decision has been
made by Boie to essentially, I'm
paraphrasing, to ignore this order that
Boseberg issued to not let those people
off those planes. And that Boi had said,
"No, that's not an order we need to
follow. Let those people off the
planes." And then on Twitter, you can
see like this this video where they just
hand these individuals over to uh the El
Salvador and authorities and transfer
them to SECOT, the maximum security
prison.
[Music]
And and that's when we really did tell
the court FU really sunk in because now
these folks are in Salvador in custody
at a maximum security prison.
And so we are all just stunned that we
have had any participation in what has
just happened.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
So, what's the next thing that happens
that concerns you just as far as telling
the truth to the judge, obeying court
orders, etc.?
>> Yeah. So, fast forward to March 28th and
there's a second case. a judge issues an
order forbidding the government from
removing individuals to third countries,
countries that they're not from
>> without following certain minimal
process beforehand. And very quickly, a
new facet of the FU makes an appearance
here. So normally one of the roles of
DOJ regardless of what the subject
matter is if we get an adverse court
order we work with the agency to draft
language informing the non- lawyers
within the agency about what they are
now allowed or not allowed to do visav
this policy
>> so that everybody can follow the law.
That's the idea.
>> Exactly. That's a key part of the job
because otherwise you take ICE officers
for example, if they remove somebody
that the court has said it's illegal to
do that, now that's them on the line
potentially in some sort of lawsuit with
financial damages attached to it. So,
it's our job as lawyers to protect these
uh law enforcement officers when there's
an order out there saying don't do this
thing because this will be illegal if
you do it. And the key fu move here was
we were forbidden from working with DHS
to circulate guidance about this
injunction.
>> Just it was it this was just I'd never
seen this before. Just we're not going
to send out any guidance. Stop putting
things in writing about this injunction.
>> And that weekend after this injunction
issued, another flight took off
depositing 17 more individuals in
Salvador in custody at Secot. And you
think, just to be clear here, you think
that ICE was deliberately kept in the
dark so that those flights could take
off, like so that they didn't know that
they weren't supposed to do that
>> 100%. And this also allows it someone
who's a decision maker to stick their
head in the sand and say, "La, I don't I
don't know what's happening here." And
so I didn't violate an order. I didn't
know about it. That's why I was told to
stop putting questions in writing about
the injunction, I believe, because if
there's no paper trail, it makes that
denial more plausible. What is the next
plot point in you feeling like you're
unable to do your job because of some of
the directions that you're getting from
your bosses?
>> Yeah, this is when we get to the third
case, uh, the Abrego Garcia case.
>> This is the Maryland father who was
wrongfully deported to El Salvador.
>> Yes, that's right. So, when I first got
this case on my radar, I don't really
think it's going to be the thing it
turned into because this is a single
individual who everyone agrees was
wrongly removed to El Salvador when you
had an order saying you cannot remove
him to El Salvador because of he he
faces persecution or torture there. And
the government's a big entity. It makes
mistakes. people get removed by mistake
and have throughout my time at DOJ
regardless of who the administration is
and we we always bring them back. So I
immediately I reach out to the clients
in this case that's Homeland Security
and State and tea up the possibility of
bringing him back and just making this
case go away. But then come March 31st,
we have a brief due in that case to
articulate our position to the judge and
kind of out of nowhere, James Persal,
who is a senior counselor to the
secretary, Homeland Security, Secretary
Gnome, sends an email to the group, and
this is DOJ attorneys, Department of
State Attorneys, Department of Homeland
Security attorneys,
asking if we can essentially call Mr.
Abrego Garcia some sort of MS-13 leader.
a gang leader.
>> Yeah. That Abrego Garcia is some sort of
Kaiser Sosa, some secret MS-13
mastermind. And none of us had seen any
evidence of that to date, even though
we'd asked for it because the position
that the administration is advancing in
the press, what the press secretary and
others are saying publicly is this guy's
MS-13 mastermind, a very dangerous
individual, a terrorist. And so that's
all happening in public. The crux of the
email, if I'm not recalling it
correctly, is that by calling this
individual a leader of a transnational
gang, if he's a very bad actor, well,
who who cares that we removed him
incorrectly? But then ICE was unable to
corroborate the things Peral wanted to
say to the court in a declaration
because there's no evidence for it
whatsoever.
>> So, what happens next?
So we file the brief and then on April
1st I get this very
ominous call in which it is conveyed to
me that Mr. Bob is very unhappy with a
number of things including this brief
that had stated that Mr. Abrego Garcia
was removed by mistake.
>> He didn't like that you had admitted to
that. He didn't like that the US
government had admitted to that. That
brief was a brief reviewed by many
attorneys within DOJ and DHS. But yeah,
he did not like that this brief stated
that it was a mistake to remove Mr.
Garcia. And then in that same phone
call, I'm directed to cease asking any
further questions related to bringing
Mr. Obrego Garcia back about his safety
in SECOT. So, I was told to stop asking
questions about that as well, and just
go to court on the 4th and make
threshold jurisdictional arguments,
meaning that the court has no authority
to do anything because this person is
outside the United States and beyond the
control or custody of the US government.
Um, so I go to court and the judge asked
me, among other things, do you concede
that it was error to remove Mr. Obrego
Garcia? I of course have no choice but
to say yes. Saying anything but that
would have been a lie. Mhm.
>> So, the hearing ends and right away my
phone is sort of blowing up, calls
coming in, in particular from the deputy
assistant attorney general uh in charge
of immigration litigation. And so, just
be clear, he's my boss's boss. And he
asks me uh why did I not argue that
Abrago was a terrorist at that argument?
It's not something we argued in our
legal papers and it's not something
supported by the facts. So, that's why
that didn't come out of my mouth. So he
hangs up, calls back again a few minutes
later, asks the same question, says,
"The White House wants to know why you
didn't argue that Mr. Orego Garcia is a
terrorist. I have the same answers."
And very soon afterwards, I we get a
brief, an outline of a brief that
basically makes these arguments that
he's a terrorist, that he's a dangerous
MS-13 individual.
And this to me was the third key example
of the FU because we are now at a point
where we've admitted we did something
wrong, the government, but instead of
fixing it, we're just making stuff up
about this person and signing a brief
under penalty of perjury that we are
submitting to the court. And so when
that draft brief comes around, that's
the line because that's us lying to a
court and that's me signing my name to
that lie. And that is not something I
signed up to do when I joined DOJ or
frankly what any attorney should be
doing at all on behalf of any client.
>> Um, so I immediately raise red flags and
they take out the argument and they move
it to a different section of the brief
as though I wouldn't notice. Uh, and
they're still making the argument just
in a different
>> like just copy and pasting.
>> Yeah. They just moved it elsewhere to
make to come in a different order in the
brief. And I'm like, "Guys, no. I'm this
is still not true. This is still a lie.
I'm I'm I can't I can't sign this. And
this leads to this sort of dramatic last
minute late in the night conversation
with my immediate supervisor. It's about
1:30 a.m. We're talking. It's an
uncomfortable conversation because we
both understand in in some way in our
minds that if I don't sign this brief,
it's unclear that I'm employed next
Monday.
>> Really,
>> he's thinking of it as don't do this.
this is not worth it. This is not the
hill to die on. He's also thinking of it
as he can't lose a senior litigator like
myself given, you know, all the crazy in
this period of time. So he says to me,
you signed up to do this. You asked for
this job. This is the job. Something to
that effect. And that's when I say, I
didn't sign up to lie.
And that's the end of the conversation.
He then files the brief with the
information that I objected to. He signs
it and then the following day around
10:12 in the morning, I get an email
that I've been put on administrative
leave for failure to follow an order, a
failure to advocate on behalf of my
clients. And once that letter was sent
to me, it was pretty clear that that
second letter actually firing me was
coming.
>> How exactly did you find out that you
were being fired?
So, in a bit of
good timing on my part, I was not in the
United States when that happened. I had
a long planned vacation.
Uh, I was in I was in Portugal and I got
an email informing me that under article
2 of the United States Constitution, I
am being removed from federal service.
And that's it.
What did that moment feel like getting
that email saying that you were fired
after all of those years working at the
Justice Department as somebody that came
to the Justice Department for, as you
had said, pretty idealistic reasons?
>> I mean, it was devastating. I mean, I I
I I handled it as best that I could. I
didn't want to, you know, ruin the
vacation that my family was having, but
it was devastating. This was, you know,
15 years of my life.
I thought I would retire from federal
service 15 years from now. Like I
thought I would be a lifer. I built
myself up. I had risen through the
ranks. I had I really loved the job.
>> Did you hear from colleagues? What did
they say to you about it?
>> Yeah, I heard from a lot of colleagues.
Um, a lot a lot a lot. It was just
stunning. Like everyone was just
shocked. And this is really the
important point in all of this.
It's pretty clear they fired me as a
warning shot to the DOJ, to the civil
division in particular. Here's Aros
Ruaney. Here's a guy who defended
everything in the first Trump
administration. Here's a guy that nobody
thinks is some kind of partisan actor.
>> Mhm.
>> And we're going to fire him. And if you
guys want to follow in his footsteps
and, you know, not play ball, not, you
know, pick loyalty to the president's
agenda over your duty of Canada to the
courts, we'll fire you, too. will take
away your livelihood, will put you in
the possible position of choosing
ethics or a salary.
>> The next big step that you take, of
course, is filing this whistleblower
report. And a lot of people might be
aware that being a whistleblower comes
with certain legal protections. It's an
actual classification, but there are, of
course, risks. Can you talk a little bit
about how you were assessing the risks
of filing this report when you did it?
I mean I I felt I felt it very important
for me to tell my story through the
proper whistleblower channels given what
is happening to DOJ. So yeah, are there
risks? Sure. I I I'm not naive that I've
put a target on me and
that sucks. But this story, what's
happened to DOJ, what they're doing to
career civil service is so important to
me that I think the risks are worth it.
>> But what are you afraid of?
Well, I'll give you an example. I was
watching some news coverage about Abrego
Garcia and a certain Trump
administration talking head gets on the
TV and floats the following possibility.
Anyone supporting Mr. Abrego Garcia is
aiding and abetting terrorism. And that
sent me to a dark place because I it's
not hard to connect the dots there on
maybe, you know, maybe they come after
people like me on trumped up charges.
or just find ways to make my life
difficult. I mean, they're smearing my
name in the press. They're saying
negative things about me. I'm getting
attention that, you know, I never wanted
to receive. So, these these risks are
real. But I sort of wonder if you think
anything will actually change as a
result of this because what you're
describing is not a situation where
there are a few bad apples. You are
describing a situation where this FU to
the courts is coming. it seems like from
the highest places in government and
your bosses instead of standing up to
that are willing to allow you to be
fired for not lying to a judge. So I
guess what I'm saying is that it feels
like the culture that you are objecting
to is pretty entrenched and I sort of
wonder what if anything could come of
what you've done.
>> Yeah, it's a it's a fair question. I I
don't know that this is necessarily
something that
yields meaningful change at all in in
the foreseeable future. That's entirely
possible and that's something I
grappled with through this whole
process. Like what if we did this and
nothing nothing happened whatsoever. But
at the same time, you can't just think
about the current moment and who's in
charge now. I I have to believe uh
someday someone else will be in charge
and maybe this will matter more then. So
even if nothing changes now
I've spoken up. I've documented the sort
of degradations and deceptions that are
occurring at the Department of Justice.
And part of what keeps it all going is
like I said before like hundreds
literally of people many I don't even
know have been reaching out since April
4th. There is a ground swell of people
that believe in the importance of this
whistleblower complaint and what is
happening to the Department of Justice.
And so everyone's got to make their own
decision when they've reached that red
line. I reached mine on April 4th.
But respectfully, if what you are saying
is true, you have attorneys who are
being asked to violate the basic oath
that they took and their ethical
principles. They're basically being
asked to do something that no attorney
should do. So, what do you make of the
fact that you are the only person to
file a whistleblower report and yet you
are not the only person to have
witnessed what you say you have
witnessed?
>> Yeah, I I can't I can't really speculate
on other people's motives. People may be
in a different circumstance than me.
People have their own personal lives and
decisions and so I can't I'm not out
here suggesting that anyone who is still
at DOJ is somehow suspect or evil. I am
out here saying, however, that more and
more of my colleagues I've heard are
being put in these impossible positions
and someone has to be the first. But
this is really a canary in the coal mine
moment for the rule of law. So again, I
come back to my hope that others will
see the moment and see what is right and
speak up.
>> Do you think you'll ever work in
government service again? Like, do you
think you could ever be idealistic the
way that you were when you entered the
DOJ about representing the government
given what you've seen?
>> Yes, absolutely.
It'll be hard. It'll be a challenge, but
the oath I took to uphold and defend the
Constitution isn't an oath that I abide
by only when it's easy or convenient.
[Music]
So, yeah, absolutely. I think that one
day there will be a DOJ or government
civil service at large that I can be a
part of again, just not now.
>> Eris Ruini, thank you so much for being
with us today.
>> Thank you.
>> In the weeks following Ruven's firing
from the Justice Department, President
Trump nominated Emil Boie to a lifetime
federal judgeship. In his confirmation
hearing, Bobi denied the thrust of
Rubin's allegations in the whistleblower
report, saying, quote, "I have never
advised a Department of Justice attorney
to violate a court order." But the Times
has reported on text messages and emails
that seem to confirm Ruven's version of
events. Boi is expected to be confirmed
by the Senate in the coming days.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
here's what else you need to note
though. On Tuesday, the leadership of
the US Attorney's Office in New Jersey
was thrown into confusion after top
Justice Department officials overruled a
panel of federal judges who were
attempting to replace the state's acting
US attorney. That position is currently
held by Alina Haba, a former personal
lawyer for President Trump, whose
limited term in the role was set to end
soon.
The panel of federal judges has taken
the rare step of blocking Haba's bid to
stay in the role. instead choosing a
different prosecutor for the job. But
the attorney general, Pam Bondi, stepped
in, firing that prosecutor. It remains
unclear whether the judges will be able
to enforce their appointment.
And Speaker Mike Johnson abruptly
announced on Tuesday that he would shut
down the House of Representatives,
sending the chamber home early for the
summer in order to avoid holding votes
on releasing files related to Jeffrey
Epstein.
The House has become paralyzed over this
issue with Democrats trying to force a
vote on releasing the files and
Republicans divided over how to proceed.
Just last week, Speaker Johnson had said
that the Epstein material needed to come
out. But by this week, he seemed to be
deferring to President Trump, who has
insisted that his party needs to move on
from Epstein.
Today's episode was produced by Rob
Zipco and Anna Foley with help from
Sydney Harper. It was edited by Rachel
Quester and Paige Cowat. Fact checked by
Caitlyn Love. Contains original music by
Dan Powell, Pat McCusker, and Diane
Wong. And was engineered by Chris Wood.
Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and
Ben Lansberg of Wonderly. Special thanks
to Develin Barrett and Margaret Hoe.
[Music]
That's it for the Daily. I'm Rachel
Abrams. See you tomorrow.
[Music]